Release 2.16.0 (#7169)
timescale/timescaledb: CHANGELOG.md

`psql` with the `-X` flag to prevent any `.psqlrc` commands from
accidentally triggering the load of a previous DB version.**

## 2.16.0 (2024-07-31)

This release contains significant performance improvements when working with compressed data, extended join
support in continuous aggregates, and the ability to define foreign keys from regular tables towards hypertables.
We recommend that you upgrade at the next available opportunity.

In TimescaleDB v2.16.0 we:

* Introduce multiple performance focused optimizations for data manipulation operations (DML) over compressed chunks.

  Improved upsert performance by more than 100x in some cases and more than 1000x in some update/delete scenarios.

> * Add the ability to define sparse indexes on non-partitioning columns of compressed hypertables
> 
>   TimescaleDB v2.16.0 extends chunk exclusion to use those sparse indexes when queries filter on the relevant columns,
>   and prune chunks that do not include any relevant data for calculating the query response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add the ability to define chunk skipping indexes on non-partitioning columns of compressed hypertables

  TimescaleDB v2.16.0 extends chunk exclusion to use those skipping (sparse) indexes when queries filter on the relevant columns,
  and prune chunks that do not include any relevant data for calculating the query response.
```

* Offer new options for use cases that require foreign keys defined.

  You can now add foreign keys from regular tables towards hypertables. We have also removed
  some really annoying locks in the reverse direction that blocked access to referenced tables
  while compression was running.

* Extend Continuous Aggregates to support more types of analytical queries.

  More types of joins are supported, additional equality operators on join clauses, and
  support for joins between multiple regular tables.

**Highlighted features in this release**

> * Improved query performance through chunk exclusion on compressed hypertables.
> 
>   You can now define sparse indexes on compressed chunks for any column with one of the following
>   integer data types: `smallint`, `int`, `bigint`, `serial`, `bigserial`, `date`, `timestamp`, `timestamptz`.
> 
>   After you call `enable_column_stats` on a column, TimescaleDB tracks the min and max values for
>   that column. TimescaleDB uses that information to exclude chunks for queries that filter on that
>   column, and would not find any data in those chunks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improved query performance through chunk exclusion on compressed hypertables.

  You can now define chunk skipping indexes on compressed chunks for any column with one of the following
  integer data types: `smallint`, `int`, `bigint`, `serial`, `bigserial`, `date`, `timestamp`, `timestamptz`.

  After you call `enable_chunk_skipping` on a column, TimescaleDB tracks the min and max values for
  that column. TimescaleDB uses that information to exclude chunks for queries that filter on that
  column, and would not find any data in those chunks.
```
